Sublime Text

As a developer, a development environment is really important.
Since you'll be spending a lot of time in front of the computer you want to make sure everything is set up properly.

In this lecture, we are going to go over how to set up your/my developer environment and I'll show you what I use on my laptop.
Now since I'm using a Mac I will leave notes after this lecture for Windows users as well.
Finally, this lecture is completely optional and actually, this entire section is optional.

If you are looking to customize your setup or you already have it done then you can skip over this section and move on to the next one.

Now let's get started. In this lecture, we're going to customize Sublime Text.

I mean Sublime Text looks pretty nice and I have a sample project,
actually our background generator (background_generator_files) here.

You know, it's - it's kind of plain and boring.

I want to show you that if you go from 'Sublime Text' to 'Preferences', you can actually choose some color schemes and themes.
So 'Select Theme...' for example, you see that we have some themes (UI: Select Theme) right now.
I can change that.
I can change the 'Select Color Scheme...' to (UI: Select Color Scheme) this and we get a bit of a change.

But the one that I really really like is the material theme.
And I'll leave the link to this for you and you can see over here that it makes your Sublime Text look really really nice.
https://github.com/SublimeText/material-theme

If I go over this, we see that we can just install it with something called package control.
And the way we do that and it actually gives you pretty nice instructions,
is we just need to press '⌘/Ctrl + ⇧ + P' (command + shift + P) or in the case of Windows, 'Ctrl + shift + P'.
So let's do that.

Easy installation
You can install this awesome theme through the Package Control.
1. Press ⌘/Ctrl + ⇧ + P to open the command palette.
2. Type Package Control: Install Package and press enter. Then search for Material Theme.

I'm going to say '⌘ + ⇧ + P' (command + shift + P) or in the case of Windows, 'Ctrl + shift + P'.
And I see over here 'Install Package' so I can actually start typing and I'll get 'Install Package'.
Or if you don't have package control you can actually install 'Package Control' through here as well.
So let's install packages and let's see what it says over here.
And enter a search for 'Material Theme'.
So we'll just say 'Material Theme', and there it is.
And you're just gonna click on it, you'll see that down here it's doing a bit of work to download it.
And once it's done installing, we should have - there you go!
We've installed it and it says to activate the theme, well, it actually gives you really nice instructions again.

It's actually a really good idea to close and reopen Sublime Text, just to make sure everything is running smoothly.
So I'm going to close. And let's just reopen it.

And all you have to do now is just go to 'Preferences', 'Select Theme...' and look at that (UI: Select Theme).
We have our 'Material Theme'.
So I like the - you know what, I like the darker ones, so we'll do - let's do the default one.
There you go.

We're getting there.

Let's check out what else it says over here.
So we've changed it to Material Theme.
And if you go to 'Select Color Scheme...' (UI: Select Color Scheme) as well now,
So we'll make sure that those match - all the same Material theme.
Look at that.
That looks pretty nice.
So we have our script file looking nice.
And also our CSS looks nice.

Activate the theme
You can active this theme from:
· Command palette Tools > Command Palette (⌘/Ctrl + ⇧ + P) by typing Material Theme: Activate theme.
· Context menu (Right click on the editor) and choose Material Theme > Activate
· Preferences > Packages Settings and choose Material Theme > Activate

You can also manually activate this theme by adding these lines to your user settings (Preferences > Settings - User):
"color_scheme": "Packages/Material Theme/schemes/Material-Theme.tmTheme",
"theme": "Material-Theme.sublime-theme",

NOTE: Restart Sublime Text after activating the theme.

Okay, Awesome.
Let's see what else we can do with this theme.

The other thing is you have a couple of Addons, you can actually add file icons if you want.

Addons
File icons
From release 4.0.0 this theme use A File Icon package to display file icons.
https://github.com/SublimeText/AFileIcon

Please install the package and restart Sublime Text.

You can see over here that you can add these, so let's see how we can install this.

Users
Installation
Package Control
The easiest way to install is using Sublime's Package Control. It's listed as A File Icon.
1. Open Command Palette using menu item Tools → Command Palette...
2. Choose Package Control: Install Package
3. Find A File Icon and hit Enter

Note: Don't forget to restart Sublime Text after installing this package.

We can just do Package Control: Install Package and Find A File Icon. Let's do that.
And then again do '⌘ + ⇧ + P' (command + shift + P) or in the case of Windows, 'Ctrl + shift + P': 'Install Package' and let's do 'A File Icon'.

And there you go.
"Please restart Sublime Text for the applied icons to take effect."

But it looks like it already has.
Look at that.
You can see over here I have the HTML5 icon, JavaScript icon, and then CSS3 icon.
That looks pretty cool.
Awesome.

Let's go back to Material Theme.
And they have recommended settings for a better experience.
I'm actually just going to copy this. Where do you want to put this?
If you go into 'Sublime Text', 'Preferences', and you go into 'Settings'.
You'll get 'Default Settings' on the left-hand side.
And on the right-hand side, you have the user settings and you want to make the most of your changes on this side,
You see that our theme has already been automatically changed to Material.
So here we can just add our copy and pasted suggested theme options. Let's save that. Some of the themes have changed.

Recommended settings for a better experience:
"always_show_minimap_viewport" : true,
"bold_folder_labels"           : true,
"font_options"                 : ["gray_antialias", "subpixel_antialias"], // On retina Mac & Windows
"indent_guide_options"         : ["draw_normal", "draw_active"], // Highlight active indent
"line_padding_bottom"          : 3,
"line_padding_top"             : 3,
"overlay_scroll_bars"          : "enabled",

Awesome.
All right, things are looking a little bit nicer.

What else can we do here?

You can actually also change the fonts.

The font used for the code is "Operator Mono"
You can also use the official Material Design monospace font "Roboto Mono" or "Fira Code".

If I download something like "Roboto Mono" which is a Google font we'll download it.
And once we open that, there we go, we have our font.
And what you do is you actually grab this and drag it into your application which is usually even on Windows you'll have a font app (Fonts).
On Mac, we have the font book right here and all we do is just drag it in here.
So I have 'Roboto_Mono' now as my font
and it's actually very easy to change if I go into my 'Settings' again,
and we can just say "font_face",
and we'll do "Roboto Mono", we save that.
There you go.
We've changed our font - looks even nicer.

And one last thing that I really like doing is changing the Color Scheme.
There is something called 'oceanic next', that's really really nice.
Oceanic Next Color Scheme:
https://github.com/voronianski/oceanic-next-color-scheme

And as you can see, this is completely up to you. If you want to have your own little color scheme and theme, you can do that yourself.
But again I just want to show you my setup here.

So 'Package Control', oceanic next.
Again, we just simply do the '⌘ + ⇧ + P' (command + shift + P) or in the case of Windows, 'Ctrl + shift + P', Install Package,
'oceanic next' color scheme, and press enter.

And now if I go to 'Sublime Text', 'Preferences', 'Select Color Scheme...', I should have 'Oceanic Next'.
And there you go.
I personally like this color style. If you like something else, well, that works too.
Very cool.

Install
· use Package Control
· or manually copy Oceanic Next.tmTheme file into /Packages/User directory (path depends on your OS)
· select scheme from Sublime Text -> Preferences -> Color Scheme

And the last thing I want to show you is that besides just looking, you can install packages with Sublime
and if you just go to 'sublime packages', you can do a lot of things.
https://packagecontrol.io/

You can add a lot of extensions to Sublime Text anything that you need.

For us, I think the most important thing is that again we do 'install package' and the first one is called 'Babel'.
And as you can see it's a syntax definitions for ES6 JavaScript with React JSX extensions.
Whoa, what does that mean?
Well, again as new features of JavaScript come up,
we want to make sure that Sublime Text recognizes it and adds all the colors and formatting that we need.
Well by having 'Babel' and we installed this, we now have a 'Babel' file format.
So if I actually click on this, instead of the JavaScript one you can do some really nice things like 'Arrow functions' and all recognize it.
I recommend using the JavaScript Babel version to make sure that any new JavaScript features that you'll use will be nicely highlighted.

One other one actually that I'll show you is the 'sidebar'.
I've got to 'install package' and then 'Sidebar Enhancements'.
Up until now - if I right-click here,
I have only a few options; Rename, Delete File, or Reveal in Finder.
If I add 'Sidebar Enhancements', and now I go right-click I have way more options that I can do with my files which are very very cool.

All right.
That's it.

Play around with your settings and you can read up a ton on the Internet about everybody's customized way of doing things.
I think this works really really well.
It looks pretty and it makes your life a whole lot easier when writing new JavaScript syntax.