Update: Latest Node.js and NPM

Hey there,
This is S. M. Anwarul Islam Raju (GitHub: smanwarulislam) from the Future.

That's right.
You just watched a video (section) of me installing node (Node.js)

Node.js
https://nodejs.org/en

but Oh now we're in the future and the node versions are now higher based on when you watch the video (section).
This (Node.js) might be even higher where the LTS release is probably while probably this version (see the Node.js website).

For information on using Node.js, see the Node.js website.
https://nodejs.org/

So what can you do here?
Well, it doesn't really matter, right?
I said in the previous video (section) that as long as you have a version higher than this (18.17.0 LTS or lower version) everything in this course will work
but let's say you're coming back to this video or just in general you want to keep your software up to date
and you decide that I want to get the latest version of node because this latest version of node has the best most up-to-date features.

Let's say we go back to our terminal and I check my node version.

C:\Users\emu\Desktop
λ node -v
v18.12.1

Once again if I do the npm version here

C:\Users\emu\Desktop
λ npm -v
8.19.2

If we look at the home page and maybe the download

Download | Node.js
https://nodejs.org/en/download

here you see that it includes npm 9.6.7

So if I go to the homepage it'll actually automatically detect one machine you're on
or you can go specifically to downloads and download specific to your operating system.

Now let's go through a process where we update our node version we need to do is click on this (home-downloadbutton):

18.17.0 LTS
Recommended For Most Users

open up and go through the installer let's continue.

So for Windows, you can install it here (Windows Installer), Mac here (macOS Installer), and for anything else, you can use the Source Code as well.
You simply click on your operating system of choice and you'll have your node install.
You simply click and it will install everything for you and take you through the whole process.

OK.

So let's go back to the terminal
So in my case, I can just open up a new window (terminal).
If I now do

C:\Users\emu\Desktop
λ node -v
v18.12.1

check that out I have the latest version of the node (Update: Latest LTS Version: 18.17.0)
If once again I do

C:\Users\emu\Desktop
λ npm -v
8.19.2

I have the latest version of npm as well (Update: npm 9.6.7).

Very very cool.

Now based on your machine you might encounter some issues.
So I will leave some resources for you to actually help you along (especially for Windows users, see the next lesson!).

For example, if you're just installing the latest version of npm there is a way to do it.

Getting the latest version of npm:
https://docs.npmjs.com/try-the-latest-stable-version-of-npm

As I've shown you before with OSX and Linux and then for Windows there is a separate way of updating things.

But I'm only showing you this because in the future in your projects you might want to upgrade some of your tooling.
If you're watching this video (lesson) right now
and this is your first time downloading node then most likely you have the latest version anyway so you don't have to do anything.

Install node and npm:

· https://nodejs.org/en (Though with a newer version of node, npm comes pre-installed. So you don't need to do that separately)
· https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started

Check node and npm installed on your system by:
node -v
npm -v