VS Code

I want to show you quickly another option you have for the scenario.
And I mean there are a ton of options for you to choose from of where you wanna write your code.
And I prefer Sublime Text.
But I want to show you Visual Studio Code as well
because Sublime Text and Visual Studio Code, these two are probably the most used most popular code editors for web developers.

Now the way to get Visual Studio Code is you go to the website and just download whichever operating system your own.
My case is Windows. So I will just download that.

Now the reason a lot of people like Visual Studio Code is that it's free.
Unlike Sublime Text which allows you to well still use it for free but everyone once in a while gets an annoying pop-up to purchase the full subscription.

Visual Studio Code actually has really really nice plugins and tools to make developing better.
Personally, I like Sublime Text just because it is nice, simple, and clean.
I find Visual Studio Code getting antsy above you can change things around.
But let me show you how I would set up Visual Studio Code.

First I will just create a new JavaScript file and call it script.js.

const object = {
  name: 'Sally'
};

object.name

You see that I get autosuggestion from VS Code.
I don't have to install any plugins or anything at all.
But it detects what this object has as a property and it autocompletes for it.

And underneath the hood, it uses something called IntelliSense (e.g. code completions)
and gives you a ton of suggestions when you type in as you can see here:
For example,
if I type in the 'window' object I see all the methods and properties that I can access which is really really nice, and people really like this.
window.

If I make any mistakes in my code you see that I get underlined in red saying hey this is something wrong:
window.jsdahkahd(

So that's really really nice!

IntelliSense features are sometimes called by other names such as "code completion", "content assist", and "code hinting."

It has a few more options.
It has a Debug (Run and Debug) feature that is really nice.
It also integrates with GitHub and Source Control.

My favorite feature is we can actually open up the Terminal.
You see (notice) that I have my Terminal right in my code editor which is really really nice.
I have to switch between the screen like I do when I use Sublime Text and Command Prompt/Cmder (Windows) or iTerm/iTerm2 (Mac) although I actually like that.
Some people prefer having everything in just one though.

Now if I use using VS Code there are two plugins that I really recommend.

If I go to 'File' over here let's go to File > Preferences > Extensions
There are a ton of Extensions here just like Sublime Text.

And one of my favorites that I like using VS Code is Quokka (Quokka.js).
And if installed I can do something to find.
I can do '⌘+ ⇧ + P' (command + shift + P) or if you using Windows might be, 'Ctrl + shift + P'
and it's going to display the editor's command line which again works the same as Sublime Text.
And if I type in Quokka you see the list of commands that I can use.
And most likely in your case, you wanna start a new JavaScript file:
Quokka.js: New JavaScript File
So if I do this, check out what happens now
So that's a really really fun plugin.

Another one that I really like and probably the only other one that I would add is the Indenticator.

And then finally just like with Sublime Text you can change the theme that you have.
So if you go to Preferences > Theme > Color Theme
you have a few default ones and a few others that you can just install.
You can download different themes and customize them if you like them.

That's enough about VS Code.

Everybody has their own favorite code editor.
There's no right one for web development.
You just pick the tool that you find yourself like the most and you find your work the best with.
Some people like a lot of plugins some people like the simplicity of Sublime Text.
It's all up to you.
Just customize it however you want because, at the end of the day, it does not matter what code editor you use.
But I have to recommend to definitely Sublime Text or VS Code.

VS Code packages and resources
GitHub:
https://github.com/viatsko/awesome-vscode
GitHub Pages:
https://viatsko.github.io/awesome-vscode/