React Review

Welcome back!

· From diagram_1.png:

At the beginning of this React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) section, I told you that things are going to get a little bit overwhelming.
But in the end, I'm/you're going to understand everything and things are going to make sense.
I want to show me/you exactly how much I've/you've learned.

· From diagram_2.png:

I've/You've learned that Components.
Well, now this makes sense, right?
I'm/You were building components during this section to combine things into containers and then finally have a page or an app.

· From diagram_3.png:

I/You also learn that there is a one-way data flow 
that is everything flows from state to props and you can have multiple children but the only people that can change state is a container component.
In our case, we only have one container component but I/you can have multiple.
And data just flows down one way and any time a child component changes, they just trigger an event on the parent.
And I/you saw how awesome that was.
We didn't think about how we should render things, we were doing things deterministically.
That is: here's the state of the app, render it accordingly and React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) takes care of it for us.

· From diagram_4.png:

We also learned that - well, exactly what I said -
React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) worries about painting and making the website look good.
We just give it the data and the components.

· From diagram_5.png & diagram_6.png:

We learned that React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) has an awesome ecosystem (diagram_5.png).
We had great tools where we were able to start and build and it gives us great errors (diagram_6.png).
So all these pain points that we had when we were first building our websites.
Well, they're gone.
Everything is built for you.
So there I'm/you're ready to just focus on coding without having to worry about configuration.
When we get to our final project, 
we're going to be using React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) components to build something really fast and just plug and play these components (diagram_5.png).

· From diagram_7.png:

And finally, well, this shouldn't look confusing to me/you anymore.
This makes sense.
This whole thing looked intimidating at first,
well, this is just React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) in this one image you have the majority of why React (also known as React.js or ReactJS) is.
And once I/you get used to the syntax it's an elegant solution to building beautiful web apps that are simple, scalable, and easy to manage.

Good job getting this far in the course, it takes a lot of dedication to get through this.
But I/you did it, I'm/you're almost there.

I'll see you in the next one.

Reference websites:

· Atomic Design by Brad Frost
https://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/